1483284324
##############

:date: 2017-01-01 09:25:24-06:00 
:tags: journal 
:category: journal 
:slug: 1483284324 
:authors: Raul Ascencio 


Quantified self.
================

Tracking what I've listened [#]_ and read [#]_ over the past couple of years has
been pretty useless, but after reading to some articles on
`quantifiedself.com`_, it became clear that a lot of stuff was being overlooked
that and a bunch of private data (like accounting info or TODO's list) could be
used to find patterns and become more aware of *my own self*.

Building an application that could help me to visualise and correlate most of
the recollected data is something that I look to be working on, it could be
pretty interesting to know if my productivity goes up when while listening to an
specific genre, if my mood is better when there are less or more expenses... it
might be useless but it's worth the try, plus making retrospectives would be
easier and will provide tools to have a better insight on what to do if/when shit
hit the fan.

Books & Courses
================

#. `Introduction to Mathematical Thinking`_  ⇝ 8 weeks. 26.02.2017

   It aims to teach essential logic and develop analytic thinking, doesn't seem
   to ask for much background [#]_.

#. `MIT6.006F11`_ ⇝ 12 weeks. 14.05.2017 & `MIT6.851`_ ⇝ 27.08.2017 

   Again... but this time without interruptions, given that my *career* depends
   on this. 

#. `Statistics: Making Sense of Data`_	⇝ 8 weeks. 02.07.2017
   
   Didn't finished it last year, hopefully will be finished in the next six months.

#. `Bounded Rationality: The Adaptive Toolbox`_ & `Modeling Bounded Rationality`_

   Because... it reinforce the idea that *shit* is casually determined or not, 

#. `Evolution of the Social Contract`_

   *It's evolution, baby* [#]_, it might be a good introduction to game theory.


One paper/article/essay a week.
===============================

Inspired by `the morning paper`_, which publish a "short summary of an paper in
the field of CS every week day" [#]_, there will be a new article with a synopsis
of an article, paper or essay of my interest every week.

The first set of papers for the next three months are:

#. `The Time Famine: Toward a Sociology of Work Time`_, by Leslie A. Perlow

   After reading `Carrie Cai`_ on `wait-learning`_, it became clear that there
   were ways to take advantage of the time already considered "dead", and use it
   to learn something, or at least pretend to be learning something.

#. `Coin-Moving Puzzles`_ && `Pushing Blocks`_
#. `Chain Reactions: The Impact of Order on Microtask Chains`_
#. `Solitaire Clobber`_
#. `Population Density, Social Pathology, and Behavioral Ecology`_, by Jim Moore.
#. `Playing with Triangulations`_
#. `‘Utilitarian’ judgments in sacrificial moral dilemmas do not reflect impartial concern for the greater good`_
#. `Data Structures for Strings`_
#. `Theories Of Human Crowding`_, by J J Edney
#. `The Nondeterministic Constraint Logic Model of Computation: Reductions and Applications`_
#. `Strategies of Human Mating`_, by David M. Buss.
#. `Advogato's Trust Metric`_ && `The math of CSS locks`_
#. `Rust Collections Case Study: BTreeMap`_, by Alexis Beingessner

------------

.. [#] http://www.last.fm/user/r_94
.. [#] https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/27385531-raul
.. [#] http://devlinsangle.blogspot.com/2012/08/what-is-mathematical-thinking.html
.. [#] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aDaOgu2CQtI
.. [#] https://blog.acolyer.org/about/


.. _`Population Density, Social Pathology, and Behavioral Ecology`: http://pages.ucsd.edu/~jmoore/publications/DensityInfanticide.html
.. _`The Time Famine: Toward a Sociology of Work Time`: http://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=5455
.. _`Carrie Cai`: http://people.csail.mit.edu/ccai/index.html
.. _`wait-learning`: http://people.csail.mit.edu/ccai/publications/Cai_WaitLearningDC
.. _`Strategies of Human Mating`: http://www.weimag.ch/micha/dc/05_Buss_Strategies%20of%20Human%20Mating.pdf
.. _`‘Utilitarian’ judgments in sacrificial moral dilemmas do not reflect impartial concern for the greater good`: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010027714002054
.. _`Theories Of Human Crowding`: http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1068/a091211
.. _`Data Structures for Strings`: http://cglab.ca/~morin/teaching/5408/notes/strings.pdf
.. _`Advogato's Trust Metric`: http://www.advogato.org/trust-metric.html
.. _`The math of CSS locks`: https://fvsch.com/code/css-locks/
.. _`Rust Collections Case Study: BTreeMap`: http://cglab.ca/~abeinges/blah/rust-btree-case/
.. _`Coin-Moving Puzzles`: https://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0204002
.. _`Pushing Blocks`: http://erikdemaine.org/pushingblocks/
.. _`Solitaire Clobber`: http://erikdemaine.org/papers/Clobber_TCS/
.. _`Playing with Triangulations`: http://erikdemaine.org/papers/TriangulationGames_JCDCG2002/
.. _`The Nondeterministic Constraint Logic Model of Computation: Reductions and Applications`: http://erikdemaine.org/papers/NCL_ICALP2002/
.. _`Chain Reactions: The Impact of Order on Microtask Chains`: http://people.csail.mit.edu/ccai/publications/Cai_ChainReactions.pdf


.. _`the morning paper`: https://blog.acolyer.org/
.. _`quantifiedself.com`: http://quantifiedself.com/


.. _`Evolution of the Social Contract`: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87646.Evolution_of_the_Social_Contract
.. _`Bounded Rationality: The Adaptive Toolbox`: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/786563.Bounded_Rationality?from_search=true
.. _`Modeling Bounded Rationality`: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232819.Modeling_Bounded_Rationality?from_search=true

.. _`Statistics: Making Sense of Data`: http://academictorrents.com/details/a0cbaf3e03e0893085b6fbdc97cb6220896dddf2
.. _`Introduction to Mathematical Thinking`: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mathematical-thinking 

.. _`MIT6.006F11`: http://academictorrents.com/details/831041a9411abc5d9c4d58e38ae40e550f8455a1/tech&hit=1&filelist=1
.. _`MIT6.851`: http://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.851/spring12/
