1483926825
##########

:date: 2017-01-08 19:53:45-06:00 
:tags: journal 
:category: journal 
:slug: 1483926825 
:authors: Raul Asuncion 


There are three components that helps to measure how group
members use of time
affects the group as a whole:

+ Intertwines of individuals work patterns.

We known little about how an individual's use of the affects other individuals or
the groups to which the individuals belong.

Research on managers has found that managers are, for the most part, initiators,
not recipients of interactions which only increases the possibility that
managers disrupt their subordinates individual work when they interact with
them.

Focus on the works interdependent work patters and not just on any one worker's
independent use of time, why? To understand the use of time among workers when
they work might require focus and others times interaction with other members.

+ Enactment of these patterns.

Enactment, the way individuals and organisations acts and, in doing so, create
the conditions that become the constraint and opportunities they face.

Existing **Temporal rhythms** to which individuals come to act, may arise from
the way people interact, and this *enacts* the temporal rhythms.


+ Effectiveness of these patterns.

Further incorporating the interdependent work patterns of multiple individuals and
the larger social and temporal context lays the foundation for a sociology of
work time, which moves the study of time use beyond the individual level to the
level of the collective.

Methods
-------

