1482295016
##############

:date: 2016-12-20 22:36:56-06:00 
:tags: journal 
:category: journal 
:slug: 1482295016 
:authors: Raul Ascencio 


Notes of `THE SOCIAL NETWORK AND ATTACHMENT BASES OF LONELINESS`_

  Weiss suggested that it is not enough to love and to be loved by an
  individual—the antidote to emotional loneliness—but one also needs to be a part
  of a meaningful social group.

  In 1974, Weiss elaborated on his idea of two types of loneliness. Because his
  theory suggests loneliness arises from relational deficits, it implies that
  relationships make certain provisions.


`The urban animal, population density and social pathology in rodents and
humans`_

Calhoun first experiments where influential at the time, but the fact that the
main focus of it was "crowding equals chaos event with enough resources" led the
discussion to the wrong path, avoiding that many of his later work, like
Theories of human crowding, didn't receive the amount of attention it deserved.

`Theories Of Human Crowding`_


    Ethological perspective Theories of temporary street crowds Comprehensive
    models Limited conceptualizations

Ethological perspective

(Calhoun, 1966) Group size, rather than density, is an important factor in
crowding; overcrowding is really a problem of too much social contact; space is
both physical and conceptual in man, meaning that man has a cognitive way out of
his overcrowding problems.

Changes occurring after prolonged exposure to high density also include
inhibition of antibody production, inhibition of reproduction functions,
increase in blood pressure, interference with growth, increased mortality rates,
and premature senility (Davis, 1971). Davis has suggested that the term
'crowding' is misleading since crowding per se does not produce stress, only
high levels of stimulation do.

It follows that stress can be reduced by community reorganization into small
subgroups; this would cut down interaction rate and aid social organization.
Suggesting applications to man, Davis emphasizes the beneficial effects of
social ordering devices (for example, hierarchical structures) for this
purpose...

but a problem with the theory is that stress is a difficult thing to measure in
humans, making the theory difficult to test on man.

man, in fact, has developed a wide variety of contraceptive devices; their
failure to be adopted on a large-scale basis may be better explained in terms of
cultural values and beliefs, factors which Lorenz (1969) does not fully explore.

Leyhausen (1965), the men who watched cats... two kids of hierarchy, absolute
and relative (dominance and social priority depending on geographic location
[?]), hierarchy form depends on density: the more crowded the area, the more
absolute the hierarchy... some of the more crowded countries of the world are
democratically organized.

Theories that are under the ethological perspective, tends to oversimplify the
human behavior, by no taking into the account their ability to adapt and vast
differences between individuals. Temporary street crowds

.. _THE SOCIAL NETWORK AND ATTACHMENT BASES OF LONELINESS: http://scholarscompass.vcu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1948&context=etd
.. _The urban animal, population density and social pathology in rodents and humans: http://who.int/bulletin/volumes/87/2/09-062836/en/
.. _`Theories Of Human Crowding`: http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1068/a091211
